.\" Manpage for mympd.
.\" Contact <mail@jcgames.de> to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "19 Nov 2023" "13.0.5" "mympd man page"

.SH NAME
myMPD \- standalone and mobile friendly web mpd client

.SH SYNOPSIS
mympd [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
myMPD is a standalone and lightweight web-based MPD client. It's tuned for minimal resource usage and requires only very few dependencies. Therefore myMPD is ideal for raspberry pis and similar devices.

The backend is written in C and has no dependencies to external databases or webservers. The configuration is stored in plain text files and all the data is pulled on demand from MPD. The MPD database is the only source of truth for myMPD.

The frontend is mobile friendly, written as a PWA and offers on all devices the same functionality. It communicates over AJAX and websockets using the json-rpc 2 protocol.

myMPD also integrates extended features like an advanced jukebox mode, timers, triggers and smart playlists. With the integrated lua interpreter myMPD functions can also be scripted.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR
creates config and ssl certificates and exits
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print all valid options and exits
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print all valid options and exits
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user USERNAME\fR
username to drop privileges to (default: mympd)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pin
sets a pin for myMPD settings
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-syslog\fR
enable syslog logging (facility: daemon)
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-workdir PATH\fR
working directory (default: /var/lib/mympd)
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-cachedir PATH\fR
cache directory (default: /var/cache/mympd)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pin\fR
sets a pin for myMPD settings

.SH AUTHOR
Juergen Mang (mail@jcgames.de)

.SH BUGS
If you find a bug, please report it at https://github.com/jcorporation/myMPD/issues

.SH SEE ALSO
https://github.com/jcorporation/myMPD
