docs/references/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /references/
title: References
---

- [Components]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/components)
- [Custom navbar icons]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/custom-navbar-icons)
- [Feature matrix]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/feature-matrix)
- [Filesystem Hierarchy]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/filesystem-hierarchy)
- [Json-rpc 2 API]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/api/)
- [Local playback]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/local-playback)
- [Lyrics]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/lyrics)
- [Pictures]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/pictures)
- [Published directories]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/published-directories)
- [Smart playlists]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/smart-playlists)
- [Sticker]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/sticker)
- [Tags]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/tags)
- [Translating]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/translating)
- [Trigger]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/trigger)
- [Webradios]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/webradios)
- [Webserver uris]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/webserver-uris)

***

If you want to hack on myMPD:

- [Doxygen generated internal API documentation]({{ site.baseurl }}/doxygen/html/index.html)

Commit message:

Feat: integrate jsdoc for frontend api documentation

docs/references/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /references/
title: References
---

- [Components]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/components)
- [Custom navbar icons]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/custom-navbar-icons)
- [Feature matrix]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/feature-matrix)
- [Filesystem Hierarchy]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/filesystem-hierarchy)
- [Local playback]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/local-playback)
- [Lyrics]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/lyrics)
- [Pictures]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/pictures)
- [Published directories]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/published-directories)
- [Smart playlists]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/smart-playlists)
- [Sticker]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/sticker)
- [Tags]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/tags)
- [Translating]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/translating)
- [Trigger]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/trigger)
- [Webradios]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/webradios)
- [Webserver uris]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/webserver-uris)

***

## API Documentation

If you want to hack on myMPD:

- [JSON-RPC 2 API Documentation]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/api/)
- [Backend API Documentation generated by Doxygen]({{ site.baseurl }}/doxygen/html/index.html)
- [Frontend API Documentation generates by jsdoc]({{ site.baseurl }}/jsdoc/index.html)
