docs/references/sticker.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /references/sticker
title: Sticker
---

myMPD uses stickers to save statistics and votes of songs.

| STICKER | DESCRIPTION |
| ------- | ----------- |
| elapsed | recent song position |
| lastPlayed | last played time of song (unix timestamp) |
| lastSkipped | last skipped time of songs (unix timestamp) |
| like | 0 - dislike, 1 - neutral, 2 - like |
| playCount | How often the song was played |
| skipCount | How often the song was skipped |
{: .table .table-sm }

**playCount is updated:**

- The song must be longer than 10 seconds
- And the song has been played for at least half its duration, or for 4 minutes (whichever occurs earlier)

**skipCount is updated:**

- The song has been played for at least 10 seconds

## Central sticker database

myMPD uses a distinct mpd connection to read and write stickers. You can configure this connection to use an other mpd server to maintain song statistics across several myMPD instances.

- [MPD satellite setup]({{site.baseurl}}/additional-topics/mpd-satellite-setup.md)

Commit message:

Feat: add backend support for rating sticker #1141

docs/references/sticker.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /references/sticker
title: Sticker
---

myMPD uses the MPD stickers to save song states, playback statistics and votes of songs.

| STICKER | DESCRIPTION |
| ------- | ----------- |
| elapsed | recent song position |
| lastPlayed | last played time of song (unix timestamp) |
| lastSkipped | last skipped time of songs (unix timestamp) |
| like | 0 - dislike, 1 - neutral, 2 - like |
| playCount | How often the song was played |
| rating | 0 - 10 stars rating |
| skipCount | How often the song was skipped |
{: .table .table-sm }

**playCount is updated:**

- The song must be longer than 10 seconds
- And the song has been played for at least half its duration, or for 4 minutes (whichever occurs earlier)

**skipCount is updated:**

- The song has been played for at least 10 seconds

## Central sticker database

myMPD uses a distinct mpd connection to read and write stickers. You can configure this connection to use an other mpd server to maintain song statistics across several myMPD instances.

- [MPD satellite setup]({{site.baseurl}}/additional-topics/mpd-satellite-setup.md)
