docs/known-issues.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /known-issues
title: Known issues
---

## Known issues

### Response line too large

- myMPD issue: [#524](https://github.com/jcorporation/myMPD/issues/524)
- libmpdclient issue: [#69](https://github.com/MusicPlayerDaemon/libmpdclient/issues/69)

#### Cause

The mpd client library libmpclient uses a fixed buffer of 4096 bytes to get
response lines from MPD. If a response line is larger than this limit, this
error occurs. Most of the time the reponse line is to large, because of a tag
that length exceeds this limit.

libmympdclient uses a fixed buffer size of 8192 bytes.

#### Workaround

- Disable the tag in mpd.conf or in myMPD if you do not use it
- Crop the tag value

### Output buffer is full

- myMPD issue: [#528](https://github.com/jcorporation/myMPD/issues/528)

### Cause

MPD has an output buffer with a default max size of 8 MB. If a response is
larger than this limit, this error occurs.

#### Workaround

- Increase the output buffer size in mpd.conf - can cause further issues
- Limit the response size - the better workaround
  - Decrease the number of enabled tags to use
  - Decrease the number of elements per page

Commit message:

Upd: Document Accept-Encoding not honored issue #738

docs/known-issues.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /known-issues
title: Known issues
---

## Known issues

### Accept-Encoding not honored

- myMPD issue: [#738](https://github.com/jcorporation/myMPD/issues/738)

#### Cause

Parsing this header and inflating the embedded compressed assets are not implemented.

#### Workaround

None

### Response line too large

- myMPD issue: [#524](https://github.com/jcorporation/myMPD/issues/524)
- libmpdclient issue: [#69](https://github.com/MusicPlayerDaemon/libmpdclient/issues/69)

#### Cause

The mpd client library libmpclient uses a fixed buffer of 4096 bytes to get
response lines from MPD. If a response line is larger than this limit, this
error occurs. Most of the time the reponse line is to large, because of a tag
that length exceeds this limit.

libmympdclient uses a fixed buffer size of 8192 bytes.

#### Workaround

- Disable the tag in mpd.conf or in myMPD if you do not use it
- Crop the tag value

### Output buffer is full

- myMPD issue: [#528](https://github.com/jcorporation/myMPD/issues/528)

### Cause

MPD has an output buffer with a default max size of 8 MB. If a response is
larger than this limit, this error occurs.

#### Workaround

- Increase the output buffer size in mpd.conf - can cause further issues
- Limit the response size - the better workaround
  - Decrease the number of enabled tags to use
  - Decrease the number of elements per page
