docs/configuration/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /configuration/
title: Configuration
---

myMPD has no single configuration file. Most of the options are configureable through the settings dialog in the web ui.

## Command line options

You can set some basic options with command line options. All these options have sane default values and should not be changed for default usage.

The `workdir` and `cachedir` options are useful if you want to run more then one instance of myMPD on the same host.

| OPTION | DESCRIPTION |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `-c`, `--config` | creates config and exits (default directory: `/var/lib/mympd/config/`) |
| `-h`, `--help` | displays this help |
| `-v`, `--version` | displays this help |
| `-u`, `--user <username>`| username to drop privileges to (default: `mympd`) |
| `-s`, `--syslog` | enable syslog logging (facility: daemon) |
| `-w`, `--workdir <path>` | working directory (default: `/var/lib/mympd`) |
| `-a`, `--cachedir <path>` | cache directory (default: `/var/cache/mympd`) |
| `-p`, `--pin` | sets a pin for myMPD settings |
{: .table .table-sm }

- Setting a pin is only supported with compiled in ssl support

## Configuration files

At the first start (if there is no config folder in the working folder) myMPD tries to autodetect the MPD connection and reads some environment variables.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
After the first start all environment variables are ignored, except loglevel.
</div>

To change these settings afterwards, you must edit the files in the folder `/var/lib/mympd/config/` and restart myMPD.


| FILE | TYPE | ENVIRONMENT | DEFAULT | DESCRIPTION |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | ----------- |
| acl | string | MYMPD_ACL | | ACL to access the myMPD webserver: [ACL]({{ site.baseurl }}/configuration/acl), allows all hosts in the default configuration |
| http_host | string | MYMPD_HTTP_HOST | 0.0.0.0 | IP address to listen on, use [::] to listen on IPv6 |
| http_port | number | MYMPD_HTTP_PORT | 80 | Port to listen on. Redirects to `ssl_port` if `ssl` is set to `true` |
| loglevel | number | MYMPD_LOGLEVEL | 5 | [Logging]({{ site.baseurl }}/configuration/logging) - this environment variable is always used |
| lualibs | string | MYMPD_LUALIBS | all | [Scripting]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/scripting) |
| scriptacl | string | MYMPD_SCRIPTACL | +127.0.0.1 | ACL to access the myMPD script backend: [ACL]({{ site.baseurl }}/configuration/acl), allows only local connections in the default configuration. The acl above must also grant access. |
| ssl | boolean | MYMPD_SSL | true | `true` = enables https, `false` = disables https |
| ssl_port | number | MYMPD_SSL_PORT | 443 | Port to listen to https traffic |
| ssl_san | string | MYMPD_SSL_SAN | | Additional SAN for certificate creation |
| custom_cert | boolean | MYMPD_CUSTOM_CERT | false | `true` = use custom ssl key and certificate |
| ssl_cert | string | MYMPD_SSL_CERT | | Path to custom ssl certificate file |
| ssl_key | string | MYMPD_SSL_KEY | | Path to custom ssl key file |
| pin_hash | string | N/A | | SHA256 hash of pin, create it with `mympd -p` |
{: .table .table-sm }

- More details on [SSL]({{ site.baseurl }}/configuration/ssl)

You can use `mympd -c` to create the initial configuration in the `/var/lib/mympd/config/` directory.

### MPD autodetection

myMPD tries to autodetect the mpd connection only at first start. Afterwards you should change the mpd connection settings through the web-ui.

1. Uses the default MPD environment variables
2. Searches for a mpd socket
  - `$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/mpd/socket`
  - `/run/mpd/socket`
  - `/var/run/mpd/socket`
  - `/var/lib/mpd/socket`

| ENVIRONMENT | DEFAULT | DESCRIPTION |
| ----------- | ------- | ----------- |
| MPD_HOST | `/run/mpd/socket` | MPD host or path to mpd socket |
| MPD_PORT | 6600 | MPD port |
| MPD_TIMEOUT | 30 | MPD timeout |
{: .table .table-sm}

This is done after droping privileges to the mympd user.

Commit message:

Upd: move covercache_keep_days to static config

docs/configuration/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /configuration/
title: Configuration
---

myMPD has no single configuration file. Most of the options are configureable through the settings dialog in the web ui.

## Command line options

You can set some basic options with command line options. All these options have sane default values and should not be changed for default usage.

The `workdir` and `cachedir` options are useful if you want to run more then one instance of myMPD on the same host.

| OPTION | DESCRIPTION |
| ------ | ----------- |
| `-c`, `--config` | creates config and exits (default directory: `/var/lib/mympd/config/`) |
| `-h`, `--help` | displays this help |
| `-v`, `--version` | displays this help |
| `-u`, `--user <username>`| username to drop privileges to (default: `mympd`) |
| `-s`, `--syslog` | enable syslog logging (facility: daemon) |
| `-w`, `--workdir <path>` | working directory (default: `/var/lib/mympd`) |
| `-a`, `--cachedir <path>` | cache directory (default: `/var/cache/mympd`) |
| `-p`, `--pin` | sets a pin for myMPD settings |
{: .table .table-sm }

- Setting a pin is only supported with compiled in ssl support

## Configuration files

At the first start (if there is no config folder in the working folder) myMPD tries to autodetect the MPD connection and reads some environment variables.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
After the first start all environment variables are ignored, except loglevel.
</div>

To change these settings afterwards, you must edit the files in the folder `/var/lib/mympd/config/` and restart myMPD.


| FILE | TYPE | ENVIRONMENT | DEFAULT | DESCRIPTION |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | ----------- |
| acl | string | MYMPD_ACL | | ACL to access the myMPD webserver: [ACL]({{ site.baseurl }}/configuration/acl), allows all hosts in the default configuration |
| covercache_keep_days | number | MYMPD_COVERCACHE_KEEP_DAYS | How long to keep images in the covercache, 0 to disable the cache |
| http_host | string | MYMPD_HTTP_HOST | 0.0.0.0 | IP address to listen on, use [::] to listen on IPv6 |
| http_port | number | MYMPD_HTTP_PORT | 80 | Port to listen on. Redirects to `ssl_port` if `ssl` is set to `true` |
| loglevel | number | MYMPD_LOGLEVEL | 5 | [Logging]({{ site.baseurl }}/configuration/logging) - this environment variable is always used |
| lualibs | string | MYMPD_LUALIBS | all | [Scripting]({{ site.baseurl }}/references/scripting) |
| scriptacl | string | MYMPD_SCRIPTACL | +127.0.0.1 | ACL to access the myMPD script backend: [ACL]({{ site.baseurl }}/configuration/acl), allows only local connections in the default configuration. The acl above must also grant access. |
| ssl | boolean | MYMPD_SSL | true | `true` = enables https, `false` = disables https |
| ssl_port | number | MYMPD_SSL_PORT | 443 | Port to listen to https traffic |
| ssl_san | string | MYMPD_SSL_SAN | | Additional SAN for certificate creation |
| custom_cert | boolean | MYMPD_CUSTOM_CERT | false | `true` = use custom ssl key and certificate |
| ssl_cert | string | MYMPD_SSL_CERT | | Path to custom ssl certificate file |
| ssl_key | string | MYMPD_SSL_KEY | | Path to custom ssl key file |
| pin_hash | string | N/A | | SHA256 hash of pin, create it with `mympd -p` |
{: .table .table-sm }

- More details on [SSL]({{ site.baseurl }}/configuration/ssl)

You can use `mympd -c` to create the initial configuration in the `/var/lib/mympd/config/` directory.

### MPD autodetection

myMPD tries to autodetect the mpd connection only at first start. Afterwards you should change the mpd connection settings through the web-ui.

1. Uses the default MPD environment variables
2. Searches for a mpd socket
  - `$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/mpd/socket`
  - `/run/mpd/socket`
  - `/var/run/mpd/socket`
  - `/var/lib/mpd/socket`

| ENVIRONMENT | DEFAULT | DESCRIPTION |
| ----------- | ------- | ----------- |
| MPD_HOST | `/run/mpd/socket` | MPD host or path to mpd socket |
| MPD_PORT | 6600 | MPD port |
| MPD_TIMEOUT | 30 | MPD timeout |
{: .table .table-sm}

This is done after droping privileges to the mympd user.
